Hello, I'm Andrew Maine and this is the
OpenAI podcast. My guests today are Mark
Chen who is the chief research officer
at OpenAI and Nick Turley who is the
head of chat GPT. We're going to be
talking about the early viral days of
chat GPT. We're going to talk about
image gen, how openi looks at code and
tools like codeex, what kind of skills
they think that we might need for the
future, and we're going to find out how
chat GPT got its totally normal name.
Even half of research doesn't know what
those three letters stand for. You know,
you're going to have an intelligence in
your pocket that it can be your tutor,
can be your adviser, it can be your
software engineer. There's a real
decision the night before. Do we
actually launch this thing?
First off,
how did OpenAI decide on that awesome
name?
It was going to be chat with GPD 3.5 and
we had a late night decision to
simplify. Wait, wait, say that. Say that
name again. It was going to be chat with
GPD 3.5 which rolls off the tongue even
even more nicely. That's uh and you said
that was a late night decision meaning
like weeks before you finally decided
what to call it. Right. Right. Right.
No, weeks before we hadn't started on
the project I think. Oh goodness. But
you know I think we we realized that
that would be hard to pronounce and um
came up with a great name instead. So
that was the night before
roughly. Might have been the day before.
It's all kind of a blur at that point. I
would imagine a lot of that was a blur.
And I remember here uh I remember being
in a meeting where we talked about the
low-key research preview which like
really was like we really thought like
oh this is cuz it's it was the 3.5. 3.5
was a model that had been out for
months. And from a capabilities point of
view, when you just look at the eval,
you're like, "Yeah, it's the same thing,
but we just put the interface in here
and made it so you didn't have to prompt
as much and then chat comes out."
And when when was the first sign that
this thing was blowing up? I I'm curious
for everyone has their slightly own
recollection of that that era because it
was a very confusing time. But for me,
day one was sort of, you know, is the
dashboard broken? Classic like, uh, the
logging can't be right. Day two was
like, oh, weird. I guess like Japanese
Reddit users discovered this thing.
Maybe it's like a local phenomenon. Day
three was like, okay, it's going viral,
but it's definitely going to die off.
And then by day four, you're like, okay,
you know, it's going to going to change
the world. Mark, did you have any
expectation about that about No,
honestly, I mean, we've had so many
launches, so many previews over time and
yeah, this one really was something
else, right? The takeoff ramp was huge
and yeah, my parents just stopped asking
me to go work for Google. Wait, so wait,
wait, wait a second. Up until Chat GPT,
your parents were asking like what
you're doing here. Yeah. No, I mean um
they just never heard of OpenAI. Um I
think for many years thought AGI was
this pie in the sky thing and I wasn't
having a serious job. So it was a real
revelation for them. Yeah. Uh what was
your job title at the time? Um I think
just member of technical staff. Member
of technical staff and then then that
blew up and now you're head of research
I guess. So yeah so all right. Yeah.
Actually on on the GPT name um I think
even half of research doesn't know what
those three letters stand for. It's kind
of funny, you know, like half of them
think it's generative pre-training, half
of them think it's generative
pre-trained transformer. And and what is
it? It's the latter. Okay. All right.
Yeah. Those people, they don't know the
name of it. Yeah. Uh it is it's weird
how just a silly name like that um all
of a sudden becomes a thing. But you see
that with like you know Google, Yahoo,
Kleenex, things like that. Xerox and
sometimes they were some of those were
names by intention and this was really
just a a silly sort of name. For me the
moment that I felt like after watching
the launch, watching it accelerate,
I knew was going to happen. And then
when it did it was when it was on South
Park and remember that when South Park
made fun of the name and that was the
first time I'd watched South Park and
let's just say a while and that episode
I still think it's magic and it was
obviously profound to watch and see you
know something you you helped make show
up in pop culture but there's the punch
line at the end where it's like ah this
was co-written by Chachi BT I think they
took that off though I think I think in
later episodes cuz it used to say I
think written by like uh Trey Parker and
like Chacht and then No, it is and then
I think later I think they may have
pulled that off at some point. I don't
remember like well I strongly feel that
you shouldn't have to give credit to
it's your business whether you're using
the I had to give credit to Chad GPD for
every aspect of my life. Um well might
as well just say Chad GPD maybe with
Andrew. So do you use it for prep for
your interviews? You know one of my my
co-producers Justin probably uses it. I
haven't asked him yet cuz I'd like to
think that he's handcrafting every
single question that we're thinking
about here, but I am sure. You say it
was a bit of a blur and I'll tell you
like a standout moment for me at the
launch of Chad GPT was I don't know if
you remember this, but the Christmas
party and we'd had several weeks of Chat
GPT out there and Sam Alman went up and
said, "Hey, it's been exciting to watch
this, but the internet being the
internet and I think we all felt this
way. It's going to die down."
Spoiler alert, it did not die down and
it just kept accelerating. What were the
things you had to do internally to sort
of keep this thing up and running as
more people wanted to use it? We had,
you know, quite a few constraints and if
if for those of you who remember, you
know, I think you guys remember touch
was down all the time. Yeah. In the
beginning. Um and that was, you know,
we' said, "Hey, this is a research
preview. No, no guarantees you maybe
goes down, but the minute you had people
loving and using this thing, that didn't
feel super good." So, you know, people
were certainly working around the clock
to keep the site up. I remember, you
know, we obviously ran out of GPUs, we
ran out of database connections, we had,
you know, um, we're getting rate limited
in some of our providers. Nothing was
really set up to run a product. So, in
the beginning, we just built this thing.
We called it the fail whale and it would
just tell you kind of nicely that the
thing was down and made a little poem. I
think it was generated by GPD3 um about
being down and and it was sort of
tongue-in-cheek and that got us through
the winter break because we did want
people to have some sort of a holiday
and then when we came back we were like,
okay, this is clearly not viable. You
can't just go down all the time. Um and
eventually we got to something we could
serve everyone. Yeah. And I think you
know the demand really speaks to the
generality of Chad Grippy, right? um we
had this thesis that chatbt embodied
what we wanted in AGI just because it
was so general and I think you know
you're seeing that demand ramp just
because people are realizing you know
any use case that I want to to give or
to throw to the model it can handle we
were kind of known as the company
working on AGI and I think prior to chat
GPT the API was certainly the first time
we had a public offering where people
could go use it and do it but then it
was more for developers and stuff and I
think that as long as people were sort
of thinking AGI I that seemed to be the
point at which people thought these
models would be useful but we saw GP3 we
saw that that was useful and then we saw
that we could do other things were
useful um was everybody at OpenAI on
board with chat GPT being useful or
being ready to launch? Yeah, I don't
think so. you know, um, even the night
before, I mean, there's this very famous
story at OpenAI of, uh, you know, Ilia
taking 10 cracks at the model, you know,
10 tough questions, and my recollection
is maybe only on five of them he got
answers that he thought were acceptable.
And so there's a real decision the night
before, do we actually launch this
thing? Is the world actually going to
respond to this? And I think it just
speaks to when you build these models in
house, uh, you so rapidly adapt to the
capabilities and it's hard for you to
kind of put yourself in the shoes of
someone who hasn't kind of been in this
model training loop and see that the
there is real magic there. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. I think to build on that like the
contray internally about, you know, is
this thing good enough to launch, I
think is humbling, right? Because it's
just a reminder of how wrong we all are
when it comes to AI. why, you know,
frequent contact with reality is so
important. Could you elaborate more on
that contact with reality? What does
that mean? Yeah. I mean, when you think
about iterative deployment, uh, one way
I like to frame it is, you know, there's
no point everyone agrees where it's
suddenly useful, right? Um, and I think
usefulness is this big spectrum. Um, and
so, you know, there's not one capability
level or one bar that you meet and
suddenly, you know, the model's useful
for everyone in. Were there any hard
decisions about what to include or what
to focus on? We were very very
principled on chatbt to not balloon the
scope. Um you we were adamant to get
feedback and data um as quickly as we
could. Slack telling you things like
Nick add this add this. I remember
actually there was a lot of controversy
about like the UI side. For example, we
didn't launch with history even though
we thought people would probably want
that and you know guess what that was
the first um um request. I also think
there's always the question like can we
train an even better model like is you
know with two weeks more time. I'm glad
we didn't because you know we I think
got a ton of feedback as as we did. So
um yeah there was a ton of those scope
discussions and you know the holidays
were coming up. So I think we had this
kind of natural um forcing function for
getting something out. Yeah there was
this this habit of things that if it's
going to come after a certain point in
November it's not going to come out like
February. You know there's a sort of
window where things would fall on either
side. Oh that would that that would be
the classic in a big tech company. I
think we're we're definitely a bit more
flexible than we should. I I I felt like
one of the big impacts was once people
are out using it, it felt like the rate
of these things improving was
tremendous. I don't know if that was
something that we really had in the
calculus. We could certainly think about
training on larger site more data
scaling compute, but then the idea of
actually having them the signal you
would get from that many people using
it. Yeah, I think over time, you know,
feedback really has become an integral
part of how we build the product and
it's also become an integral part of
safety and so you always feel the time
cost of losing out on feedback. You
know, you can deliberate in a vacuum,
right? Uh are they going to respond to
this better? Are they going to respond
to that better? Um but it's just not a
substitute for just bringing it out
there, right? Um I think our philosophy
is let the models have contact with the
world. And if you need to revert
something, that's fine. But I think uh
there's really no substitute for this
fast feedback and it's become one of the
big levers for how we improve model
performance too. It's sort of funny like
I feel like we started with shipping
these models in a way that is more
similar to hardware where you make like
one launch very rarely and it has to be
right and you know you're not going to
update the thing and you're going to
work on the next big project and it's
capital intensive and the timelines are
long and over time and I think chatbt
was kind of the beginning. It's looked
more like software to me where you make
these frequent updates. Um you have kind
of a constant pace the world can adopt.
Something doesn't work you roll it back
and you sort of lower the stakes in
doing that and you lower you increase
the empiricism and and of course just
operationally too you can innovate
faster and in a way that is more and
more in touch with what users want.
Yeah. One of the examples we had of that
was
the the model becoming too obsequious or
sophantic. Could you explain what
happened there where that was where
people all of a sudden say, "Hey, it's
it's telling me I've got 190 IQ and I'm
the most handsome person in the world,"
which I had no problem with personally,
but other people did and what was going
on there. Yeah. So, I think um one
important thing is we rely on user
feedback to improve the models, right?
And it's this very complicated mix of
reward models which we use in uh a
procedure we call RLHF, right? uh using
human feedback to use RL to improve the
model. Can you give me just like a brief
example what that would mean? Yeah.
Yeah. So I think um one way to think
about it is you know when a user enjoys
a conversation you know they provide
some positive signal um thumbs up. Yeah.
A thumbs up for instance and uh we train
the model to prefer to respond in a way
that would elicit more thumbs up. Right.
And this may be obvious in retrospect
but um stuff like that if balanced
incorrectly can lead to the model being
more syophantic. right? Um you can
imagine users might want that kind of uh
that feeling of you know a model saying
good things about them but um I don't
think it's a very good long-term outcome
and actually when we look at kind of our
response to uh sency and and the roll
out that resulted there um I think there
were a lot of good points about it you
know this was something that was flagged
just by a small fraction of our power
users it wasn't you know something that
a lot of people who generally use the
models noticed
And I think we really picked that out
fairly early. We responded to it, I
think, with the appropriate level of
gravity. And um yeah, I think it it just
shows that, you know, we really do take
these issues quite seriously and we want
to intercept them very early. Yeah, it
felt like there was maybe 48 hours since
the model came out and then Joan Jen had
a response explaining exactly what
happened. And I think that that's the
that's the hard part. How do you
navigate that? Because the problem with
social media is you're basically
monetized by engagement time. You want
to keep people on there longer so you
can show them more ads. And certainly
the more people use chatbd, obviously
there's a cost to open. The idea is
maybe use it once and stay around
forever, but that's not practical. How
do you weigh that? The idea of making
people happy with what they're getting
versus making the model, you know, be
broadly more useful than just pleasing.
I feel very lucky in this regard because
we have a product that's very
utilitarian and people use it to either
achieve things that they do know how to
do but don't feel like doing um faster
or with less effort. Um or they they're
using it to do things that they couldn't
do at all. Um you know first example is
maybe you know writing an email that
you've been dreading. Second example
might be you know running a data
analysis that you didn't actually know
how to do um in Excel you know um um
true story. So, so you know those are
very utilitarian things and
fundamentally as you improve you
actually spend less time in the product,
right? Because you know ideally it takes
less turns back and forth or maybe you
actually delegate to the EI so you're
not in the product at all. So for us,
you know, time spent it's very much not
the not the not the thing we optimize
for. You know, we do care about um your
long-term retention because we do think
that's a sign of value. Um if you coming
back three months later, that's clearly
means we did something right. Um but
what that means is you know um I always
say um show me the incentive and I'll
share the outcome. We we have I think
the right fundamental um incentives to
build something great. Um that doesn't
mean we'll always get it right. Um the
sycopency um events were were really
really important and good learning for
us and I'm proud of how we acted on it.
Um but fundamentally I think we have the
right um the right setup to build
something awesome. So that that brings
up the the the challenge. I want to know
how you navigate that is that
one of the things early on when you know
chatb came out there was like the the
allegations it's woke it's woke and
people are trying to promote some sort
of like agenda from it and my argument
always been like you train a model on
you know kind of on corporate speak you
know average news and a lot of academia
that's going to kind of follow into that
and I remember Elon Musk was very
critical about it and then when he
trained the first version of Grock it
did the same thing and then he's like oh
yeah when you trained it on this sort of
thing and did
And internally at open eye there were
discussions about how do we make the
model not try to push you not try to
steer you could you go a little bit how
you try to make that work yeah so I
think um at its core it's a measurement
problem right and I think it's actually
bad to downplay these kind of concerns
because they are very important things
right and um we need to make sure that
the model the default behavior that you
get is something that's centered that
you know doesn't reflect bias um on the
political spectrum um or in in many
other you axes of bias. And at the same
time, you know, you do want to allow the
user the capability to, you know, if it
you want to talk to a reflection of
something with more conservative values
to be able to steer that a little bit,
right? Um or liberal values, right? And
and so I think the thing is you want to
make sure that defaults are meaningful
and they're centered and that's a
measurement problem. And you also want
to give ability some flexibility, right,
within bounds to steer the model to be a
persona that you want it to talk to. I
think that's right. Um I think you know
in addition to neutral defaults ability
to sort of bring your own values to some
extent. I think you know being
transparent about the whole thing is I
think really really important. I'm not a
fan of of you know secret system
messages that you know try to like you
know hack the model into saying or not
saying something. Um what we've tried to
do is publish our spec so you can go
look at you know if you're getting
certain model behavior is that a bug? um
you know is it in violation of our own
stated spec or is it actually in the
spec in which case you know who to
criticize and who to who to yell at or
is it just underspecified in the spec in
which case that allows us to improve it
and add more specificity into that
document. So by sort of publishing the
rules of the AI that it's supposed to be
following. Um I think that's an
important step to have more people
contribute to the conversation than just
the people inside of open air. So we're
talking about like the system prompt,
the part of the instruction that the
model gets before the user puts the
input and well I think it's
um system prop is one way to steer the
model but you know it goes much deeper
into that right you know yeah we have a
very large document that um outlines
across a bunch of different behavior
categories how we expect the model to
behave. And just to give you an example
here, right? Um you can imagine if
there's someone who comes in with just
like a incorrect belief, just a
factually incorrect kind of a point of
view. Um how should the model interact
with that user, right? And should it
reject that point of view outright or
should it collaborate with the user on
kind of figuring out what's what's true
together? And you know, we take that
latter point of view. And I think there
are a lot of very subtle decisions like
this which we put a lot of time in.
Yeah, that that's a hard one because I
think
some things you can test for and you can
try to figure out advance, but when
you're trying to figure out how an
entire culture is going to adopt
something, it's challenging. Like if I
was someone who's convinced that the
world was flat, you know, like how much
should the model push back against me?
And some people like, oh, it should push
it back all the way, but it's okay. What
if you're one religion or not another?
And yeah, it turns out rational people
and well-meaning people can disagree on
how you know the model should behave in
these instances. And you're not always
going to get it right, but you can be
transparent about what approach we took.
We can allow users to customize it. And
I think, you know, this is our approach.
I'm I'm sure there's, you know, ways we
can improve on it, but I think by being
transparent in the open about how we're
trying to tackle it, we can we can get
feedback. How are you thinking about as
people start to use these models more
and more? Um, regardless of whether or
not that's some dial you're trying to
turn, it's just the more useful it
becomes, the more people want to use it.
You know, there was a time when nobody
wanted a cell phone and now we can't get
away from them. And how are you thinking
about relationships people are forming
with with their systems? Um, obviously,
you know, we um, you know, I mentioned
this earlier, this is a technology you
have to study. It's not designed in a
static way to do XYZ. It's it's highly
empirical. So you know as people adopt
and the way that they use the product
it's something that we we need to go
understand and and um um and and act on
as well. I've been um observing this
trend with interest where I think you
know increasing number of people
especially Gen Z and you know younger
populations are coming to Chhatri as a
thought partner and I think in many
cases that's really helpful and
beneficial because you've got someone to
brainstorm on a relationship question
you've got someone to brainstorm on a
you know um a professional question um
um or or something else but in some
cases it can be harmful as well and I
think detecting those scenarios and
first and foremost having the right
model behavior is very very important to
us Um um so actively monitoring and in
some ways it's one of those problems
we're going to have to grapple with
because with any technology that becomes
ubiquitous, it's going to be dual use.
People are going to use it for all this
awesome stuff and people are going to
use it in ways that you know we wish
they didn't and u we have some
responsibility to make sure that we um
um handle that with with the appropriate
gravity. I I find myself having longer
conversations with it. I like the memory
function. I like the fact you can turn
it off if you don't want. And I think
about like, you know, what's this going
to be two years from now or three years
from now when it has a much longer
memory, much more context with this. I
like the idea to have these sort of
like, you know, momento anonymous modes,
too, where it's not going to store this.
But I I kind of wonder how much you've
been thinking about two years, three
years down the road, what what's that
going to be like when Chad GBD knows way
more about you? Yeah. I mean, I think
memory is just such a powerful feature.
In fact, it's one of the most requested
features when we talk to people
externally. Um it's like this is the
thing I really want to pay pay more for.
And I think um you know you liken it to
if you've ever kind of had a personal
assistant, you know, you No, I'm not.
Well, you do need to build up.
Sorry, guys. I'm sorry, guys. But you
know, it's Yeah, it's just like it's um
kind of in any kind of relationship that
you have with a person, right? You you
build up contact with them over time.
Mhm. Um and I think just the more they
know about you, right, the richer the
relationship, the more you know, um they
can also help you, right? You can work
together to collaborate on tasks
together. I I do become self-conscious
of the fact like it knows everything
about me when I'm grumpy. And I've I've
argued with it recently, by the way.
That's good. Yeah. You should be able to
argue with it. You understand a lot
about yourself and having a thing to
argue with. Um and I think you spare
others of that experience, which which
can also be beneficial, but Don't argue
on math and science. You're not gonna
win those. Yeah. No. Increasingly very
unlikely. Yeah. Yeah. I think memory's
cool. And to Mark's point, it's been
part of our vision for for a long time
because, you know, we said we were going
to build a super assistant before we
really knew what that meant. Um Chad GBT
was sort of the early demonstration to
that idea. But if you kind of think
about, you know, real world
intelligences, you even they are not
particularly useful on their first day.
Um, and I think being able to solve that
problem or begin to solve that problem
has been profound. To your earlier
question though, you know, it it really
does feel like, you know, if you fast
forward a year or two, chat GBT or
things like it are going to be your most
valuable account by far. It's going to
know so much about you. And that's why I
think giving people ways to talk with
this thing, you know, in private is very
important. Um, we make, you know, this
like temp chat thing very like literally
on the home screen because we think
it's, you know, increasingly important
to talk about stuff sort of off the
record, too. So it's an interesting
question and and uh um I think privacy
and AI is going to be be an interesting
one um for the next coming years. I want
to switch gears, talk about another
release which again kind of caught
people by surprise and blew up was Image
Gen and uh I was here for
Dolly Dolly 2 and then then Dolly 3 came
out and I thought Dolly 3 I thought was
a very capable model but it seemed like
it preferred a certain kind of image and
a lot of the utility and the
capabilities for variable binding was
sort of kind of hidden away and then
image gen was kind kind of just this
breakthrough moment that it caught me
off guard. How did you guys feel about
the launch of that? Yeah, honestly it
caught me off guard too. Um and this
really props to the research team, you
know, um Gabe in particular did a ton of
work here. um Kenji, many others on the
team did phenomenal work and um I think
it really spoke to this thesis that when
you get a model just good enough that in
one shot it can generate an image that
fits your prompt that's going to create
immense value and I think we never quite
had that before right um that you just
get the perfect generation oftentimes on
the first first try um and I think
that's something very powerful you know
like uh people don't want to pick the
best out of a grid I think uh yeah you
just got very good prompt following and
you know just great style transfer too,
right? Um this ability to kind of put
images um as context for the models to
modify and to change and the fidelity
that you could do that with um I think
that was really powerful for people. I
think I think this image and experience
um it was just kind of another mini chat
GBT moment um all over again where you
know you have kind of this you've been
staring at this for a while like yeah
it's going to be cool. I think people
are really going to like it. Um but you
kind of you know you're launching like
20 different things and then suddenly
the world is going crazy in a way that
you you kind of only find out um um by
shipping. Like I remember distinctly you
know we had like 5% of the Indian
internet population try image genen over
the weekend and I was like wow we're
reaching new types of users who we
wouldn't even have thought you know who
might not have thought of using chatbt
that's really cool and and um to Mark's
point I think a lot of this is um
because there's just this discontinuity
where something suddenly works so well
and truly the way you expected um where
I think it blows people's minds you know
and I think we're going to have those
moments in other modalities these two.
You know, I think voice, you know, it it
hasn't quite passed the touring test
yet, but I think the minute it does,
people are going to um I think find that
immensely powerful and valuable. You
know, video is going to have its own
moment where you it starts meeting the
expectations that users have. So, I'm
really excited about the future because
I think there's so many of these magical
moments coming that are really going to
transform people um people's lives and
and also you change um sort of chatbt's
relevance for people because um you know
there's um I've always felt like there's
text people and there's image people and
like some of them are a little bit
different um and now they're all using
the product and discovering the value
across the board. the moment when it
launched, I think it kind of illustrated
the the problem that been with image
models before. And you know, when Dolly
came out, it was super exciting because
you're like, I'm I'm like doing pictures
of space monkeys and all these sorts of
things. The moment you try to do a
really complex image, and that's the the
phrase I brought up before, which is
variable binding, you start to see these
things drop off. And that was when I
realized, oh, there's going to be a
challenge for other image systems that
don't have kind of the scale and the
compute of like a GPT4 under the hood.
And now was it just was it basically
that like taking like a GP4 scale model
and say now you do images that made
breakthrough? Well, I think there are a
lot of different parts of research that
made made this such a big success,
right? I think um with a complicated
multi-step pipeline, it's never just one
thing, right? It's like very good post
training. It's very good training. Um
and um I think it's just all of that
coming together, right? Um variable
binding definitely was one thing that we
paid a lot of attention to. I think one
thing about the image launch is is a
launch that was very deep. I think
people, you know, they started by
working on, you know, creating anime
versions of themselves, but you realize
when you play with it more, you know,
the infographics they work with like you
actually create charts, you comic book
panels, you can mock up what your home
would look like with furniture in it,
different furniture. Exactly. I've heard
all these things from from users that
are like completely surprising about the
way that you we did the the the podcast
setup by literally taking some photos of
chairs in the room and just putting it
in there and saying, "Create a better
setup." And it was amazing. So, we've
seen kind of a lot of the, you know,
there was a lot of the anime style
images which kind of like for some it
was just sort of the weird thing where
it was just just better than what we'd
seen before and I don't think anybody is
ready to be really surprised by an image
model in that way. I think obviously
internally and externally. What were
some of the things that surprised you or
some of the new things you saw people
doing? Yeah, I'll I'll tell you a quick
story there, too, because um you know,
up until the day of the launch, we're
trying to figure out what's the right
use case to showcase, you know, like uh
and I think I'm so glad we ended up on
kind of anime styling. It's just
everyone looks good as an animated. So,
that's true. I mean, it's funny with
original ChatBT, I thought it would be
strictly utilitarian product and then
I'm surprised that people use it for
fun. In this case, it was sort of the
opposite where I was like, okay, this is
going to be really cool for memes.
People are going to like have fun with
this thing. Um, but then I was like
really surprised by all the like
genuinely useful ways of using image gen
whether or not it's you know planning
your home project um as I mentioned
earlier um you know of of uh um you're
doing a construction you want to see
what things would look like if you know
you had this remodel or this furniture
or whatever um to um you're working on a
slide deck um for this important um
presentation and you just want to have
really useful consistent illustrations
um that are on topic and um and and and
get it. So, so I I really have been been
kind of personally surprised by the
utility in this case because I knew it
would be fun. That was not a question.
Yeah, I think I used it to generate a
tier list of AI companies and it put
opening at the top.
You win model. Um, what good post
training? Yeah. Yeah. it just happened
you know who knew um what has been the
thinking in it's changed because I
remember originally with Dolly the idea
of like okay we have to be a lot of very
controlled about what it can do what it
can't do originally I remember when we
first launched you couldn't do people
which was not a very useful model and
then finally was trying to roll back how
much of that was cultural shift how much
that was the technological ability to
control for things and how much of that
was just saying we've got to push the
norms I would say it was both cultural
shift and an improvement in our ability
to control things. The cultural shift,
you know, I'm I'm not going to deny it.
I think when I joined OpenAI, there was
um a lot of conservatism um around, you
know, what capabilities we should give
to users. Maybe for good reason. The
technology is really new. Um a lot of us
were new to working on it and you know,
if you're going to have a bias, you
know, biasing towards safety and being
careful, it's not a bad, you know, in
your DNA to have. But I think over time
we we learned that there's so many
positive use cases that you um
effectively prevent when you make
arbitrary restrictions in the model.
What about faces? Why not why can't I
make any face I want? Um so this is a
good example of of um a you know
capability that that's got pros and cons
and you can air on one side or the
other. you know then when we um first
shipped um image uploads um into chatgbt
uh we had some debates you know about
what what capabilities do you allow
versus where are you conservative and I
think one debate that we had is like do
we upload allow the upload of images
with faces or rather when you upload an
image that contains a face do you um you
know um should we just like gray out the
face because you avoid so many problems
right you can make inferences about
people based on on their face um you
could say mean things to people based on
um their face. Um um and and you know,
you would just take a giant shortcut on
all the gnarly issues if you didn't
allow that. But um I've always felt we
need to um air on the side of freedom
and we need to do the hard work. And I
think in this case, you know, there's so
many valid ways. You know, if I want
feedback on makeup or on my haircut or
anything like that, I want to be able to
talk to chat about it. That those are
valuable and benign use cases. And I
would prefer to allow and then study,
you know, where does that um um fall
short, where is that harmful? And then
iterate from there versus taking a
default stance on disallow. And I think
that's one of those ways in which our
stance and posture has changed a bit
over time in terms of where we set, you
know, where we start. Yeah, we we're
very good, I think, imagining worst case
scenarios. What if I use this these
faces to evaluate hires for a company or
whatever, but also it's like, hey, is
this eczema? You know, like, you know,
there's a lot of utility there. And and
honestly, I think there are certain
domains of of AI safety where worst case
scenario thinking is very appropriate.
Mhm. So I think that is an important way
of thinking about risk when it comes to
certain forms of risks that are
existential or even just very very bad.
You know, we have the preparedness
framework which helps us reason through
some of those things. You know, um can
the AI let you make a boweapon? It's
good to think about the worst case there
because it would be really really bad.
So you kind of have to have that way of
thinking in the company and you have to
have certain topics where you think
about um safety in that way but you
can't let that kind of thinking spill
over onto other domains of safety where
the stakes are lower because you end up
I think making very very um um um
conservative decisions that that block
out many valuable use cases. So I think
being sort of principled about different
types of safety on different time
horizons and with different levels of
stakes is very important for us. I think
I want a blunt mode sometimes and just
because like right now where it actually
roasts you. Well, I mean like yeah
because I'll ask the model like with the
the the voice in speech out model be
like do I sound tired and it's like well
you know I don't really want to you know
and be like yeah you know just are
trying to get it to be honest you know
um I I I think I think there's many
cultures that would prefer a blunder
chat. So very much on the radar.
Yeah, just to piggyback off Mick's
answer, um I think it's the iterative
deployment that gives us the confidence,
right? Uh to push towards user freedom
and you know, we've had many cycles of
this. We know what users can and can't
do. Um and that gives us the confidence
to launch with the restrictions that we
do. One of the other capabilities, one
of the other generative capabilities
that's been very interesting has been
code. And I remember early on GPD3 we
saw that all of a sudden it could spit
out entire react components and we saw
that oh wow there's some utility there
and then we went we actually trained a
model more specifically on code and that
led to we had codeex then we had code
interpreter and now codeex is somehow
back and you know a new new form uh same
name but the capabilities keep
increasing and we've seen code work its
way first into uh VS code via copilot
and then uh cursor and then I windsurf
which I use all the time now.
What uh how much pressure has there been
in the code space? Because I'd say that
if we ask people who made the top code
model, we might get different answers.
Yeah. And I think it reflects that when
people talk about coding, uh they're
talking about a lot of different things,
right? I think there's coding in a
specific paradigm like if you pull up an
ID and you want to kind of get a
completion on a on a function that's
very different from you know agentic
style coding where you know you ask uh
you know I want I want this PR and you
know um and I think we've done a lot of
focus could you sorry could you unpack a
little bit what you mean by agentic
coding yeah yeah so I think um when you
you can draw a distinction between more
kind of real-time response models um you
can think of chachki uh to first order a
as you ask a um a prompt and then you
get a response fairly fairly quickly.
And then a more agentic style model
where you give it a fairly complicated
task, you let it work in the background
and after some amount of time it comes
back to you with what it thinks is
something close to the best answer,
right? And I think we see increasingly
that the future will look like more of a
async kind of uh you know where you're
asking it very difficult hard things and
um you're letting the model think and
reason and come back to you with really
the best version of what what it can
come back with and we see the evolution
of code in that way too. I think
eventually we do see a world where
you'll kind of give a very high level
description of what you want and the
model will take time and um it'll come
back to you and so I think uh our our
first launch codeex really um reflects
that kind of paradigm where uh we are
giving it PRs units of fairly heavy work
um that encapsulate you know a new
feature or you know a big bug fix and we
want the model to spend a lot of time
thinking about how to accomplish this
rather than kind of give you a fast
response. And to get to your question,
you know, there there's there's there's
coding is such a giant space. There's so
many different angles at it. It's kind
of like talking about knowledge work or
something incredibly broad. Uh which is
why I don't think there's one winner. I
don't think there's one best thing. I
think there's um so many options and I
think developers are the lucky ones
because they have so many choices uh
right now and I think that's
fundamentally exciting uh for us too.
But to Mark's point, I think this
agentic paradigm has been particularly
exciting for us. One framing I often use
when thinking about product here is I I
want to build products so that have the
properties such that you know the model
gets 2x better product gets 2x more
useful and I think you know chat has
been a wonderful thing because for a
long time I think that was true but I
think as we look at you know smarter and
smarter models I think there's some
limit to people's desire to talk to like
a PhD student um versus you know they
might value other attributes about the
model like its personality and you know
what it can actually do in the real
world But um experiences like codecs I
think they they they they create the
right body such that we can drop in you
know more smarter and smarter models and
it's going to be quite transformative um
um because you get the interaction
paradigm right where people can specify
this task give the model time um and
then then then get get a result back. So
I'm really excited where it's going to
go. It's an early pre research preview
but just like with chat GBT we felt like
it would be beneficial to get feed get
feedback as early as possible and um
excited where we're going to take it. I
was using sonnet a lot which I love. I
think sonnet for coding is fantastic.
But with 04 mini medium setting in wind
surf I found was great. I found once I
was started using that I was really
happy because one the speed everything
else like that and I think that and I I
think there are very good reasons why
people like other models and I don't
want to get into comparison but I found
that for me for the kinds of tasks I was
using this was the first time I I was
very happy you guys put that out there
because absolutely yeah and um you know
we feel like there's still a lot of low
hanging fruit in code it is a big focus
for us and I think we'll find in the
near future you'll find many more good
options for uh the right code model
tailored for your use case Yeah, I find
often if I just need a quick answer like
how to write something in Dart, I'll
just get a 4.1 and say it but yeah, for
something bigger and I think that's
going to be the harder part is because
yeah, these eval are some ways saturated
but also everybody has their own
criteria that we look at and that's
going to be kind of a you know a
question to sort of see you know how are
we going to adapt to all that right yeah
I mean specifically in code right I
think there's more beyond did it get you
the right answer with code you know
people care about the style of the code.
They care about you know how verbose it
was in the comments. It cares about um
you know how much proactive work did the
model do for you, right? Um on other
functions and so I think you know
there's a lot to get right and users
often have very different preferences
here. Yeah, it's funny. I used to I used
to you know people used to ask me what
domains are going to like you know be
transformed by AI you know fastest I
used to say you know it's code because
like similar to math and other things
it's very very verifiable and testable
and I think those are the domains that
are particularly great to do RL on and
you know you're therefore going to see
all this this awesome you know agentic
stuff just suddenly work. I still think
that's true. But the thing that
surprised me about code is that, you
know, there is still so much of an
element of taste in terms of what makes
good code. And there's, you know,
there's a reason that, you know, people
train to be a professional software
engineer. It's not because their IQ gets
better because they, but rather because
they learn, you know, um how how to
build software inside an organization.
What does it mean to write good tests?
What does it mean to write good um
documentation? How do you respond when
someone disagrees with your code? Those
are all actual elements of being a real
software engineer that we're going to
have to teach these models um to do. Uh
so I I expect progress to be fast and I
still think code has a ton of nice
properties that make it very ripe um for
the Gentic um products. But but but I I
do think it's very interesting to the
degree that you know the the the element
of taste and style and um real world um
um software engineering matters. It's
interesting too because with chat GPT
and and the other models, you're kind of
dealing with having to bridge the divide
between consumer and pro. I open up chat
GPT and I tell my friends like, oh yeah,
because I'll plug it into whatever code
model I'm working because I can actually
connect it to there. And I think about,
you know, well, that's a very different
use case a lot of other people. Although
I've shown people like how to go in and
use, you know, uh an IDE and actually
have it just write documents for you and
create folders and stuff, which people
don't realize like, yeah, you could do
that. you have chatbd actually control
it and do that which is cool but then
you think about like okay we've got a
tab now for images there's the codeex
tab so if I want to connect to GitHub
and have it work through there and
there's a Sora into there so it's kind
of interesting to see how all of these
things are coalesing into there how do
you differentiate between a consumer
feature a professional feature and maybe
like an enterprise feature look um we
build very general purpose technology
and it's going to be used by a whole
range of folks And unlike many companies
which have this kind of founding user
type and then they use technology to
solve that user's problems we do start
often times with the technology observe
who finds value in it and then iterate
for them. Now with codeex um our goal
was very much to build for for
professional software engineers knowing
though that there's sort of a splash
zone where I think a lot of other people
will find value in it and we'll try to
make it accessible for those people as
well. Um there are a lot of
opportunities to target non-engineers.
I'm personally really motivated to
create a world where, you know, or help
help build a world where um anyone can
make software. Codex is not that
product, but you could imagine those
products existing over over time. Um
but, you know, as a general principle,
it's really hard to predict exactly who
the target user is. Um until we made
some of these general purpose
technologies um available because it
gets back to the empiricism I was
talking about. Um uh we just never
exactly know um where the value is going
to lie. Yeah. And I think even um to to
dig deeper into that zoom like you know
you could have a person who's mostly
using chatbu for coding right but 5% of
the time you know they might just want
to talk to the model or like 5% of the
time they just want a really cool image
right and so I think you know um there
are certainly archetypes of people who
who use the models but in practice we
see that people want this exposure to
different capabilities. Yeah, with
codeex and watching the launch of that
it kind of struck me there's some tools
you see that's there's a lot of
excitement about because there's a lot
of internal demand for that how much are
you using it internally are tools like
that more and more okay I' I've been
really excited um to to see the internal
adoption it's it's everything from you
know exactly what you'd expect you know
people using um codeex to awful their
tests to you know we have a uh um um
analyst um workflow that will look at,
you know, logging errors and
automatically flag them and slack people
about it. Um, so there's all these these
ways that or I've actually heard heard
some people are using as a to-do where
like future tasks they're they're hoping
to do, they're starting to fire off COD
CEX tasks. So this is the perfect type
of thing that I think you can you can
dog food internally. Um, and and you
know um I I'm very excited about, you
know, the leverage that engineers are
going to get out of a tool like this. I
think it's going to allow us to move
faster um uh with with with the people
we have and make each engineer that we
hire um you know like 10 times more
productive. So so in some ways internal
uh usage is is a very good predictor of
of where we want to take this. Yeah. I
mean we don't want to ship something to
other people that we don't find value in
ourselves. And I think you know leading
up to the launch laundry buddy Laundry
Buddy Laundry Buddy is an essential
partner. Okay. Sorry. Sorry. Um I mean
yeah I mean we had some power users
though that you know hundreds of PRs a
day um that they were generating
personally right so I think you know uh
there are people internally finding a
lot of utility from what we're building
also though if you think about internal
adoption it's also a good reality check
because you know people are busy you
know adopting new tools tools takes some
activation energy so actually um the
thing you find when you try to dog food
things internally is is is is some of
the reality component of how long it
takes people to actually adjust to a new
workflow. And it's been it's been
humbling to to watch, right? So, so I
think you learn both about the
technology, but you also learn about
some of the adoption patterns when
you're trying to get a bunch of busy
people to change the way they write
code. As you build these tools
internally, people have to learn how to
use them and are having to adapt. And
there's a lot of question now about kind
of what kind of skills do people need in
the future? You know, what kind of
skills do you look for on your teams?
I've thought about this a lot. Um,
hiring is hard,
especially if you want to have a small
team that is very very good and humble
and able to move fast, etc. Mhm. And I
think curiosity has been the number one
thing that I' I've looked for. And it's
actually my advice to you students when
they ask me what do I do in this world
where everything's changing because I
mean for us there's so much that we
don't know. There's a certain amount of
humility you have to have about building
on this technology. Uh because you don't
know what's valuable. You don't know
what's risky until you really study and
go deep and and try to understand. And
when it comes to working with AI, which
you know, we obviously do a lot, not
just in code, but in kind of every facet
of of our work. Um, it's asking the
right questions that is the bottleneck,
not necessarily getting the answer. So,
I really fundamentally believe that we
need to hire people who are deeply
curious about um the world and what we
do. I care a little bit less about their
experience in AI. Mark presumably feels
a bit different about that one, but for
the product side, uh it's been curiosity
that I've I've um found the most the
best predictor of success. No, I mean
even on research I think increasingly
less uh we index on you have to have a
PhD in AI, right? I think uh this is a
field that people can pick up fairly
quickly. I also came into the company as
a resident without much formal AI
training. And I think correlated to what
Nick said, I think one important thing
is for our new hires to have agency,
right? Open is a place where you're not
going to get so much of a oh here's
today you're going to do thing one,
thing two, thing three. Um, it's really
about being kind of driven to find, hey,
here's the problem. You know, no one
else is fixing it. I'm just going to go
dive in and fix it. Um, and also
adaptability, right? It's a very fast
changing environment. That's just the
nature of the field right now. And you
need to be able to quickly figure out
what's important and pivot what you need
to do. The agency thing is re is real.
You know, I think we often get asked
for, you know, how you how does open up,
you know, keep shipping and, you know,
you it feels like you're you're pushing
something out every week or something
like that. It's a funny because it never
feels to me. I always feel like, you
know, we could go be going even faster.
Um u but but you know, I think
fundamentally we just have a lot of
people with the agency who can ship. Um
that comes to private, that comes to
research, that comes to policy. Shipping
can mean different things. uh we all do
very different things at OpenAI but I
think the ratio of people who can
actually do things um and you know the
lack of red tape except where it matters
you know the couple areas where I think
red tape is very very important but you
know um um I I think that is what makes
open very unique and it obviously
affects the type of people who we want
to hire too. I was brought into the
company because I was originally given
access to GPD3 and I just started
showing all these use cases for it and
making videos every week for it. Yeah.
And I was annoying people I'm sure but I
was It's not. It was really fascinating.
It was exciting. It was an exciting
time. I I described it to people like
they, you know, they I think they built
a UFO and I get to play with it, you
know, and then I make it hover and like,
"Oh, you made it hover." I'm like,
"Well, they built it. I just pressed the
button and got to do that." But that was
just what I found very empowering was
the fact that I I I'm self-taught. I
learned to code by Udemy courses and
stuff and then to be a member of the
engineering staff and be told just go
just go do stuff. Um, nothing too
critical. I didn't break anything.
anybody. Um, and that's good to know
that that kind of spirit is still there.
And I think that is part of the reason
why OpenA is able to ship even though,
you know, it was like 150 200 people
worked on GP4. I think people forget
about that, you know, totally. And and
honestly, this is how and even ch this
is how how it came together. You know,
we we had a research team, they'd been
working, you know, um, for a while on
instruction following and then the
successor to that and, you know, post-
training these models um, to be good at
chat. Uh, but the product effort came
together as as a hackathon. I remember
distinctly we said like who who who who
who's excited to you know go build
consumer products and we had all these
different people like we had a guy from
the supercomputing team um who you know
was like I'll make an iOS app I've done
that in a past life where we had you
know researcher who wrote some backend
code and it was just convergence of
people who were excited to do stuff and
I think the ability to do so and I think
that's how you get the next is is is
running an organization where where
where that is possible and continues to
be possible as a scale hackathons were
my favorite thing because one being a
performer and loving showand tell but it
was just neat to be able to things that
you knew were going to be a product or
something later on because when you're
playing with the technology this
advanced and all that, do you guys still
do them? Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. Um,
we've had some fairly recently and they
are typically tied last week actually.
Uh, can't say what it was about, but it
was an exciting campaign. Sure. Um, and
and it's it's how you find out what's
possible. Yeah. Yeah. Uh, I'm excited to
hear that. I I I do have a question
which is how much as it grows again like
when when I started I think like 150
people on the company now there's like
2,000 and now you know I see a video
with Sam talking to Johnny IV and how
much is that going to change the
character the spirit of bringing in all
this I think all the outside expertise
has been great we've seen this great
sort of run of products but do you see
it changing the culture? Well, I mean, I
think probably in the right way, right?
It's like um I think when we look at AI,
we don't think of it as some fairly
narrow thing. And we've always been kind
of enthralled by just the potential and
all the different things you could build
with AI. And yeah, to to Nick's point,
right, this is why we're able to ship so
quickly because people imagine all these
different possibilities. They imagine
the future with AI and they try to bring
it about, right? And I think these are
facets of that imagination, right? It's
like what does AI look like? If you
imagined a AI first device for instance,
yeah, when you go from 200 to 2,00 you'd
think a lot would change and um
yeah, maybe in some ways it has but but
I think people often underestimate you
the number of things that we're doing. I
always feel like being at open feels
much closer to being in a university
where you know you got this kind of
common reason to being there but
everyone's doing something different and
you'll sit down at dinner at lunch and
you'll talk to someone and learn about
their thing and you're like wow that's
so cool that you're doing that. Um and
so it feels much smaller because I think
of the sort of broad range of things
we're doing and and and therefore each
individual um effort whether or not
that's something like chat GPT um or
something like like Sora or etc is
actually staffed in a in a very very
conservative and lean way that continues
to keep people very autonomous and and
make sure they have resources etc. So um
and I think it's part partly that that
has made it feel um very very similar in
the good ways to to when I started here.
We talked a bit about one of the things
you look for is curiosity and and Mark
said that's helpful too. If I'm somebody
outside of AI, okay, if I'm 25 or I'm 50
and I'm looking at the advancement of
technology and maybe having a little bit
of fear because I see copywriting is one
of the things that Chad GPD got great
at. Uh, writing code is great. I
personally of the opinion that we will
never have enough people creating code
because there's more things code can do
in the world than we can imagine. And
even the thing replaces the copy. My
wife showed me the other day on her um
her uh skin block or sunblock lotion
bottle. Showed me on her sunblock lotion
bottle like some very funny copy about
like the ingredients. I said, "Oh, this
is not a place I expected to see this."
But that's one of the tiny little places
that all of a sudden that you can put
more thought into it. That being said, I
know that I'm a bit of an optimist
because I see all these opportunities or
places to go in there. What advice do
you give people, you know, where at
whatever point they are in life about
preparing for or adapting to or being
part of the future?
You know, I like how Mark just looked
right to me. You take this. I can go.
Okay, I will jump in right now. Yeah.
No, I think the important thing is you
have to really lean into using the
technology, right? And you have to see
how your own capabilities can be
enhanced, how you can be more
productive, more effective by using the
technology. I fundamentally do think
that the way this is going to evolve is
you will still have your human experts
but what AI helps the most is the people
who don't have that capability at a very
advanced level right so if you imagine
right like uh as these models get much
better at healthcare advice um they're
going to help people who don't have
access to care the most right uh image
generation right it's not producing you
know an alternative for you know experts
or you know professional artists it's
allowing people like me and Nick to
create creative expressions, right? Um,
and so I think it's kind of rising the
tide that allows people to be competent
and effective at a lot of things all at
once. And I think that's kind of how
we're going to see a lot of these tools
bootstrap people. The world's going to
change a lot. And I think truly everyone
has a moment where the AI does something
that they considered sacred and human.
Um um I know a guy that got vested and
felt very threatened about his
achievements in codeabilities.
Well, that happened for me a long time
ago. Let's be talking about someone else
in the room. Oh, yeah. I mean, yeah,
it's definitely better than me at a lot
of code problem solving for sure. Yeah.
Right. So, I think it's deeply human to
to to feel some level of um awe,
respect, uh and maybe even fear. And I
think to Mark's point, be actually using
this thing can demystify it. I think we
all grew up or you know learned about
the word AI um in a world where AI means
something pretty different from what we
have today. You've got these algorithms
that you know try to sell you things,
try to do things and or you've got
movies you know where the eye takes over
etc. And like that term means so many
things to different people that I'm
entirely unsurprised that you know um
there's fear. So actually using the
thing is is I think the best way to have
a grounded conversation um about it and
then I think from there the best way to
prepare I I think there's some degree to
which you need to understand the
products and keep up sure but I think
things like prompt engineering or sort
of understanding the intricacies of this
AI they're kind of not the right
direction. I I I think sort of there's
fundamental human things like learning
how to delegate that is incredibly
important because increasingly you know
you're going to have an intelligence in
your pocket that it can be your tutor
can be your um adviser it can be your
software engineer um it's much more
about you understanding yourself and the
problems you have and how someone else
might help than a specific understanding
of AI. Um so I think that's going to be
important. Curiosity. I mentioned it
earlier. I think asking the right
questions, you'll get you only get what
you put in, right? That's important. And
I think fundamentally being ready to
learn new things. I think the more you
learn understand how to pick up new
topics and and and domains, etc. Um the
more you're going to be prepared for a
world where, you know, the the nature of
work is shifting much faster than has
ever shifted before. So, um I'm prepared
that my job, you know, in product is is
going to look different or not exist at
all. But um I am looking forward to
picking up something new and and I think
as long as you you bring that
perspective um you're well set up to
leverage AI. Yeah, I think we we
sometimes overindex on you know
sometimes certain jobs go away because
like you know we don't really need a lot
of you know typewriter repair people
anymore, right? And then certain kinds
of coding jobs are probably going to go
away but like I said I think there's way
more opportunity for coders or people to
create code however it's done. Um, and
you mentioned like the health field. And
that's one of the things I hear people
like, "Oh, when you know when we replace
everything with AI, like well, I mean, I
would be very happy having an AI
diagnose me, operate on me, and probably
do everything else, but I do want
somebody there to talk me through the
procedure and hold my hand, but also I
want people asking questions like like,
you know, every day I take a bunch of
vitamins. Is this the right time of day
to take it?" You know, I can't bother my
doctor with all these silly little
questions. I I really don't think you
end up displacing doctors. you and you'd
end up disposing not going to the
doctor. You end up democratizing the
ability to get a second opinion. Very
few people have that resource or know to
you know take advantage of a resource
like that. You end up bringing medical
care into pockets of the world where
that is not readily available and you
end up helping doctors gain confidence.
You know I think I have often heard from
doctors that you know they already talk
to existing colleagues to get a second
opinion. In some cases that's not
possible and I think you'd be surprised
by the number of doctors that use
chatbt. Um, now on things like medicine,
there's work to make the model really,
really good, and we're excited to do
that work. There's also work to prove
that the model is really good because I
think you're not going to trust it until
there's some degree of sort of
legitimacy. And then there's work to
explain the areas where the model might
not be good because increasingly once it
gets to human and then super human level
performances, um, it's hard to frame
exactly where it will fall short, which
is also um, hard hard to sort of reckon
with. But nonetheless, I think that
opportunity is one of the things that
gets me up in the morning. education
might be the other one and um I think
there's a tremendous opportunity to help
people.
What do you think is going to surprise
us the most in the next year to 18
months? I honestly think um it's going
to be the amount of research results
that are powered even in some small way
by the models that we've built. And um
one of the kind of quiet things that's
taken the field by storm is the ability
of the models to reason. And you already
see some research paper. I'm gonna make
you explain when you say reason. Yeah.
So, this fits into the I want you to
reason through Yeah. the question as you
explain reason out loud. Yeah. Think out
loud. Tell us your your your traces.
Yeah. This um this really fits into this
egentic paradigm that we were talking
about earlier. And um the way that the
models approach solving a problem that
takes some time to solve is that it
reasons through it. Much like you or I
might, right? If I give you a very
complicated I think you reason probably
much better than I do. No, I mean um I
think this with a yeah like a a
complicated puzzle, right? You might
think to yourself, uh for instance,
let's just use a cross word puzzle,
right? Like you might think through all
the different alternatives and um what's
consistent? Um you know, is is this row
kind of consistent with that column and
you're searching through a lot of
alternatives. You're backtracking a lot.
Um you're trying out a lot of different
hypotheses and and then at the end,
right, you come up with a well-formed
answer. And so the models are getting a
lot better at that and that's what's
powering a lot of the advancements in
math, in science, in coding. So this has
reached a level where today in many
research papers
people are using 03 almost as a sub
routine, right? There's sub problems
within the research problems they're
trying to solve which are just fully
automated and solved through plugging
into a model like 03. Um I've seen this
in several physics papers. um talked to
physicists even where they're like wow
like I had this expression that I
couldn't simplify but 03 made headway on
it and and these are coming from some of
the best physicists in the country so um
I think you're going to see that happen
more and more and more and more and
we're going to see just acceleration in
in progress in fields like physics and
mathematics. It's a hard one to beat
because, you know, I I I would swap many
things we do in exchange for making a
true, you know, significant, you know,
scientific advancement. Um, but I think
we can we we we we can have multiple of
these things. I I think for for me it's
it's the fact that any
wellscribed problem that is intelligence
constrained I think will be solved in in
products. And I think we're we're
fundamentally just limited by our
ability to do that. So what that mean is
like you know in companies in the
enterprise there are so many problems
that are fundamentally hard the models
are not smart enough to do yet. Um
whether or not it's software
engineering, whether it's not running
data analyses, whether or not it is um
providing amazing customer support,
there's all these problems that um the
models fall short at today that are very
very um easy to describe and evaluate
and I think we'll make tremendous
progress at those. Um, on the consumer
side, these problems exist, too. They're
a bit harder to find um just because
consumers are um um um worse at um
telling us exactly what they want.
That's the nature of building consumer
products. But I think it's very very
worthwhile where you know there's many
hard things we do in our personal life.
Whether or not it's doing taxes, whether
or not it's planning a trip, whether or
not it's um searching for a high
consideration purchase, whether or not
that's a house or a car or a piece of
clothes. Um all of those things are um
problems where we need just a little bit
more intelligence. um and the right form
factor. So I think the other thing
that's going to happen in the next year
and a half is you'll see a different
form factor in AI um evolve. I think
chat is still incredibly useful
interaction model and I don't think it's
going to go away but increasingly you're
going to see more of these sort of
asynchronous um workflows. Coding is
just one example but for consumers it
might be sending this thing off to go
find you the perfect pair of shoes or to
go you know plan a trip or for to go um
um finish your taxes. And I think that's
going to be exciting and we're going to
think of AI a little bit differently
than um just a chatbot.
One of my favorite examples both from a
utility point of view capability and
then uh UI was deep research and deep
research is probably the best example we
maybe have of probably agentic sort of
model use right now because it used to
be you would ask for a model to tell you
about a topic. It would you would either
get the data or just do a big search the
internet and then it would just
summarize all of that where deep
research will go find some set of data
look at it ask a question then go find
some new data and come back to it and
keep going on and I think the first time
I used other people used like wow this
is taking a while and then you added a
UI change so I can actually go away and
go do something else and then the lock
screen on my phone will show me this is
working which was a paradigm shift and I
talked to Sam here about that and Sam
said that was a surprise to him was the
fact that people would be willing to
wait for answers and now I've seen uh a
new metric for models is how long a
model can spend trying to solve a
problem which is a good metric if it
ultimately solves it and that's has this
been an update to you and how you think
about these things the idea of like oh
we don't just want and I guess you
talked about this before about agentic
and the idea that it's not just give me
the answer it's like take your time get
back to me I think you know to build a
super assistant, you got to relax
constraints. Like today, you have a
product that is, you know, entirely
synchronous. You have to initiate
everything. Um that's just not the
maximally best way to help people. Like
if you think about a real world um
intelligence that you might get to work
with. Um it has to be able to go off and
do things over a long period of time. It
has to be able to be proactive. Um so I
think there's like we're we're sort of
in this process of relaxing a lot of the
constraints on the product and on the
technology to better mimic a very very
helpful um entity. Um the ability to go
do five minute tasks, you know, five
hour tasks, eventually five day tasks is
like a very very fundamental thing that
I think is going to unlock a different
degree of value in in the product. So
I've actually not been that surprised
that people are willing to do that. Um
like I I don't really want to be sitting
around um waiting for my coworker
either. Um, and I think if the value is
there, um, I' I'd gladly be doing other
stuff and come back. Yeah. And we really
don't do it just because, right, we do
it out of necessity. The model needs
that time to solve the really hard
coding problem or the really hard math
problem. And it's not going to do it
with less time, right? You can think
about this as I give you some kind of
brain teaser, right? Your quick answer
is probably like the intuitive wrong
one. And you need that actual time to
kind of work through all the cases to
like are there any gotchas here? Um, and
I think it's that kind of stuff that
ultimately makes robust agents. We we've
seen kind of there's like the the paper
of the moment where somebody comes out
and says, "Ah, I found a a blocker." And
I remember there was one a month or so
ago and they said models couldn't solve
certain kinds of problems. And it wasn't
hard to figure out a prompt that you
could train into a model and it could
solve those kinds of problems. And we
had a new one that talked about how they
would fail at certain kinds of problem
solving ones. And that was kind of
quickly, I think, debunked by showing
that, you know, the paper kind of had
flaws in there.
There are limitations. There are things
that there might be some blockers and
thing or things we don't know are going
to be there. I think brittleleness is
one of the things. There is a point
where models can only spend so much time
solving a problem. We're probably at a
point we're only having the model, you
know, maybe two systems watch each other
and we have to think about how a third
system stops, you know, to wait for
things to break down. But do you see
kind of any blockers between here and
where I'm getting the models that are
going to be solving, you know, doing
things like coming up with interesting
scientific discoveries? I mean, I think
they're always technical innovations
that we're trying to come come up with,
right? Um, fundamentally, we're in the
business of producing simple research
ideas that scale and the mechanics of
actually getting that to scale are are
difficult, right? It's a lot of
engineering, a lot of research to kind
of figure out um how to kind of tweak
past a a certain roadblock. And I think
um those are always going to exist,
right? Every layer of scale gives you
new challenges and new opportunities. So
um you know, fundamentally the approach
is the same, but we're always
encountering new small challenges that
we have to overcome, right? Just to
build on that, I mean, the other
business we're in isn't building um
great product with with with great
product with these models. And I think
we shouldn't underestimate the um
challenge and amount of discovery needed
to really bring these um ever
intelligent models into the right
environment whether or not that's giving
them the right sort of action space and
tools whether or not that's really being
proximate to the problems that are
hardest understanding those and bringing
the eye there. So I I think there's, you
know, the the technical answer. Um um
but I think there's also the the the you
know real world deployment and I think
that always has challenges that are like
very very hard to predict yet you know
worth worthwhile and part of our mission
to solve. All right, last question and
I'll begin. It's uh what's your favorite
use or tip for chat GPT? Mine is I take
a photograph of a menu and I'm like help
me plan a meal or whatever if I'm trying
to like you know stick to a diet or
whatever. See, I really want that use
case, but like I've been trying it for
wine lists and that is my eval on
multiodality. It still doesn't work.
Like really, it keeps embarrassing me
with like hallucinated wine
recommendations and I go order it and
they're like, "Never heard of this one."
So, I'm glad yours works. But for me,
that's the that's still a use case.
Well, I mean, maybe the wine lens is too
dense. That was a problem. That was a
problem with operator was it like
originally was the the vision models
that too much dense text it just loses
it placement. Yeah. I mean, speaking to
deep research, I love using deep
research. And, you know, when I go meet
someone new, um, when I'm going to talk
to someone about AI, right, I just
pre-flight topics, right? I I think the
model can do a really good job of
contextualizing who I am, who I'm about
to meet, and what things we might find
interesting. Um, and I think it it
really just helps with that whole
process. Very cool. I'm a voice
believer. I I it's still got um I I
don't think it's entirely mainstream yet
because it's got it's got many little
kinks that all add up, but for me, you
know, half of the value of voice is
actually just having someone to talk to
and forcing yourself to articulate um um
yourself. And I I find that to sometimes
be very difficult to do in writing. So
on my way to work, I'll use it to
process my own thoughts. And like with
some luck, and I think this works most
days, I'll have sort of a structured
list of to-dos by the time I actually
get there. So, uh, voice for me
continues to be the thing that, you
know, I both love using and want to see
improve, um, over the next year.